after the first two days of hearings at
the international court of justice in
the ha Israel continues to defend its
military operation in Gaza as an act of
self-defense in response to the October
7th Hamas Terror attacks a South African
delegation argued that Israel's
offensive was going beyond that to them
it's an attempt to destroy the
Palestinians as a people claims that
amount to genocide now the German
federal government says it will request
to join the case as a third party in
support of Israel Berlin says there is
no basis for South Africa's
accusations well for more on this story
I'm joined by DW political correspondent
Julia selli Julia great to see you so
Germany wants to join the trial as a
third party how could that affect the
court case well jining as a third party
doesn't mean that Germany will then be
directly uh implicated in the case in
the dispute but it allows Germany to to
bring forward written statements and to
participate in the oral proceedings and
that would mean that Germany could bring
forward its own legal interpretation of
the case and of the convention on
genocide now it also is not uh an
obligation for parties that join the
proceedings to state which side they're
on but we've heard clearly from
statements made by the German government
that Germany is taking part to stand on
the side of Israel and is against the
accusations brought by South Africa we
heard from a government spokesman that
uh Germany rejects these accusations and
says that they are baseless and Germany
also sees this case as uh politically
instrumentalizing the convention on
genocide and we've also heard similar
strong statements coming from the
economy Minister Robert habek who was in
Israel on Thursday and let's have a
listen my personal and political opinion
is that one can criticize the Israeli
military for using harsh measures in the
Gaza Strip however that does not
constitute
genocide those who would commit genocide
or desire to do so if given the
opportunity are
Hamas the annihilation of the state of
Israel is on their agenda so we can
understand the slogan from The River To
The Sea as not meaning that Jews should
leave Israel by boat but as an
Extinction fantasy accusing Israel of
genocide is a complete Distortion of
victims and perpetrators in my view and
it is just
wrong right Julia so very clear
statement there from Robert habc tell us
why is Germany getting involved in this
case at all well our countries that
signed the convention on genocide can
take part in proceedings as a third
party and in uh this case we don't see
this as the first case that Germany
joins proceedings they've done that
recently in a case brought against
against Myanmar uh for accusations of
genocide uh against the rohinga and also
Germany joined the case against Russia
for its war and Ukraine and in those two
cases Germany uh supported the
accusations of genocide in the case of
Israel it is not and we see that Germany
wants to stand by Israel being one of
Israel's strongest allies uh right now
and also though there is a sense of
historical responsibility on the side of
Germany given that the genocide
convention was born out of the
atrocities of World War II as a sign of
never again and also out of uh the
atrocities committed by Nazi Germany in
the Holocaust so Germany sees itself as
responsible to ensure that the
convention is interpreted correctly in
the way that Germany sees it correctly
so it wants to also take a principled
stand in this case thanks Julia for
breaking that down for us tww political
correspondent Julia
selli